Adv SnarkyJS edits, timeless docs, editorial grooming (#342)
o1-labs/docs2: docs/zkapps/advanced-snarkyjs/permissions.mdx

# Permissions

Permissions are an integral part of zkApp development because they determine who has the authority to interact and make changes to a specific part of a smart contract.
Naturally, every smart contract must have proper permissions to prevent attacks or security holes.
Permissions live on-chain, which means they are a part of the account representation on the network. Permissions are checked every time an account update tries to interact with an account.

## Types of Permissions

There are 11 different types of permissions that a developer can access and adjust to guard a zkApp account:

> - `editState`: The permission corresponding to the eight state fields of on-chain state that are associated with an account. This permission describes how the on-chate state fields can be manipulated.

Reviewer: `The permission describing how the zkApp account's eight on-chain state fields are allowed to be manipulated.`

> - `editState`: The permission corresponding to the eight state fields of on-chain state that are associated with an account. This permission describes how the on-chate state fields can be manipulated.

Author: ```suggestion
- `editState`: The permission corresponding to the eight state fields of on-chain state that are associated with an account. This permission describes how the on-chain state fields can be manipulated.
```

> - `editState`: The permission corresponding to the eight state fields of on-chain state that are associated with an account. This permission describes how the on-chate state fields can be manipulated.

Author: ```suggestion
- `editState`: The permission describing how the zkApp account's eight on-chain state fields are allowed to be manipulated. This permission describes how the on-chain state fields can be manipulated.
```

await tx.sign([account1Key]).send();
```

This malicious example transaction creates a new account update for our smart contract address. Right after that, the new account update sends 1 MINA to the address of the fee payer (`account1Address`).

> At the end of the transaction block, the transaction is signed only with the private key of the fee payer - not the private key of the smart contract!

Reviewer: em dash

> At the end of the transaction block, the transaction is signed only with the private key of the fee payer - not the private key of the smart contract!

Author: ```suggestion
At the end of the transaction block, the transaction is signed only with the private key of the fee payer -- not the private key of the smart contract!
```

> At the end of the transaction block, the transaction is signed only with the private key of the fee payer - not the private key of the smart contract!

Author: ```suggestion
At the end of the transaction block, the transaction is signed only with the private key of the fee payer -- not the private key of the smart contract!
```

Because the permissions for sending funds away from a smart contract are set to `none`, this transaction succeeds and drains 1 MINA from the smart contract.

> Now, if you change the `send` permission to something else, like `signature`, the manual account update fails with `Update_not_permitted_balance` that prevents withdrawing funds from the smart contract since the authorization does not fit the permission for `send` that now requires a valid signature!

Reviewer: How do you feel about exclamations? Probably overused in this page

Author: I am not in favor of them, but restrained myself from removing them all! I like enthusiasm... we can do better
https://developers.google.com/style/exclamation-points

Reviewer: I have a similar view as you

> Now, if you change the `send` permission to something else, like `signature`, the manual account update fails with `Update_not_permitted_balance` that prevents withdrawing funds from the smart contract since the authorization does not fit the permission for `send` that now requires a valid signature!

Author: ```suggestion
Now, if you change the `send` permission to something else, like `signature`, the manual account update fails with `Update_not_permitted_balance` that prevents withdrawing funds from the smart contract since the authorization does not fit the permission for `send` that now requires a valid signature.
```

> Now, if you change the `send` permission to something else, like `signature`, the manual account update fails with `Update_not_permitted_balance` that prevents withdrawing funds from the smart contract since the authorization does not fit the permission for `send` that now requires a valid signature!

Author: ```suggestion
Now, if you change the `send` permission to something else, like `signature`, the manual account update fails with `Update_not_permitted_balance` that prevents withdrawing funds from the smart contract since the authorization does not fit the permission for `send` that now requires a valid signature.
```

### Upgradeability of smart contracts

Another important part of smart contract development is upgradeability.
By using permissions, you can make our smart contract not upgradeable at all or upgradeable! 
On Mina, when you deploy a smart contract you generate a verification key from the contract source code. The verification key and the smart contract are stored on-chain and used to verify proofs that belong to that smart contract.
Remember the permission called `setVerificationKey`? You can modify the authorization for this permission to set the upgradability of the smart contract. 

> #### Impossible to upgrade example

Reviewer: A title structure like `Example: Impossible to upgrade` and `Example: Upgradeable with a proof` could be considered to help avoid any readers reading it in an unintended way. We've used a similar pattern for time locked account examples, since there were a few examples together and it helped group them.

Reviewer: But I also am reviewing a diff, so maybe that doesn't work for readability in this case if it needs to be section titles. Just a suggestion to consider if it works

> #### Impossible to upgrade example

Author: ```suggestion
#### Example: Impossible to upgrade
```

`Error: Transaction verification failed: Cannot update field 'verificationKey' because permission for this field is 'Impossible'`

For the sake of security, it is important to note that you must also set the field `setPermissions` to `impossible` to make the smart contract truly impossible to upgrade. This permission prevents a zkApp developer from changing the permission `setVerificationKey` to, for example, `signature` - which allows an actor to manipulate the verification key again.

> #### Upgradeable with a proof

Author: ```suggestion
#### Example: Upgradeable with a proof
```
